README.md, before:

# tmux-tpad

A lightweight floating window manager for tmux that allows you to create customizable popup sessions for different workflows.

![tpad](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2c0e701-e9dd-45a8-9849-ae6328a6f933)

## Features

- Create multiple named popup sessions with different configurations
- Customize appearance, size, and position of each popup
- Run specific commands automatically when opening a popup
- Set custom working directories per popup
- Support for custom key bindings and tmux prefix keys

## Installation

### Using TPM (recommended)

1. Install [Tmux Plugin Manager (TPM)](https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm) if you haven't already
2. Add the following to your `~/.tmux.conf`:
   ```tmux
   set -g @plugin 'Subbeh/tmux-tpad'
   ```
3. Press `prefix` + <kbd>I</kbd> to install the plugin

## Configuration

TPad sessions are configured using tmux options in the format: `@tpad-<session_name>-<option>`.

### Global Options

| Option      | Default | Description                                 |
| ----------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| @tpad-debug | false   | Enable debug logging to `~/.cache/tpad.log` |

### Required Options

| Option | Description                                                      |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| bind   | Key binding to toggle the popup session (e.g., "C-p" for Ctrl+P) |

### Appearance Options

| Option       | Default                                  | Description                                                    |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| title        | `#[fg=magenta,bold] 󱂬 TPad: @instance@ ` | Popup window title                                             |
| width        | 60%                                      | Popup width (percentage or columns)                            |
| height       | 60%                                      | Popup height (percentage or rows)                              |
| style        | fg=blue                                  | Popup window style                                             |
| border_style |                                          | Border style (e.g., "fg=cyan")                                 |
| border_lines | rounded                                  | Border line style (rounded/none/etc)                           |
| pos_x        |                                          | Horizontal position (percentage, pixels, or left/center/right) |
| pos_y        |                                          | Vertical position (percentage, pixels, or top/center/bottom)   |

### Behavior Options

| Option | Default | Description                                         |
| ------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| dir    | $HOME   | Working directory for the session                   |
| cmd    |         | Command to execute when popup opens                 |
| prefix |         | Custom tmux prefix for the session                  |
| env    |         | Additional environment variables                    |
| opts   |         | Session-specific tmux options (semicolon-separated) |

## Example Configuration

Here's a comprehensive example showing different use cases:

```tmux
# Simple scratchpad
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-bind   "C-p"
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-opts   "status on"

# Git management with lazygit
set -g @tpad-git-bind          "C-g"
set -g @tpad-git-dir           "#{pane_current_path}"
set -g @tpad-git-cmd           "lazygit"
set -g @tpad-git-style         "fg=yellow"

# Notes with Neovim
set -g @tpad-notes-bind        "C-n"
set -g @tpad-notes-dir         "${NOTES_DIR}"
set -g @tpad-notes-cmd         "nvim -c NvimTreeOpen"
set -g @tpad-notes-prefix      "None"
set -g @tpad-notes-width       "80%"
set -g @tpad-notes-height      "80%"

# Task management
set -g @tpad-tasks-bind        "C-t"
set -g @tpad-tasks-style       "fg=green"
set -g @tpad-tasks-height      "40%"
set -g @tpad-tasks-width       "40%"
set -g @tpad-tasks-pos_x       "right"
set -g @tpad-tasks-pos_y       "bottom"
set -g @tpad-tasks-cmd         "taskwarrior-tui"
```

## Usage

1. Configure your popup sessions in `tmux.conf` as shown above
2. Press your tmux prefix key (default: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>)
3. Press the configured key binding to toggle the popup (e.g., <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>g</kbd> for the git session)
4. The popup will close automatically when the command exits

### Full-screen mode

Full-screen mode can be toggled by pressing the tmux prefix key with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>f</kbd> from within a tpad session

### Session-specific Options

You can set session-specific tmux options using the `opts` configuration. Multiple options can be separated with semicolons:

```tmux
# Enable the statusline for a specific popup
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-opts "status on"

# Multiple options
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-opts "status on; status-position top"
```

## Roadmap

- [ ] Window controls (resize, maximize, minimize)
- [ ] Image support for terminals with kitty protocol
- [ ] Session persistence options
- [ ] Multiple popup layouts/splits

## Credits

This project was inspired by:

- [Dismissable Popup Shell in tmux](https://willhbr.net/2023/02/07/dismissable-popup-shell-in-tmux/)
- [omerxx/tmux-floax](https://github.com/omerxx/tmux-floax)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add per-directory sessions

README.md, after:

# tmux-tpad

A lightweight floating window manager for tmux that allows you to create customizable popup sessions for different workflows.

![tpad](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2c0e701-e9dd-45a8-9849-ae6328a6f933)

## Features

- Create multiple named popup sessions with different configurations
- Customize appearance, size, and position of each popup
- Run specific commands automatically when opening a popup
- Set custom working directories per popup
- Support for custom key bindings and tmux prefix keys
- Per-directory sessions: create separate sessions for each git repository

## Installation

### Using TPM (recommended)

1. Install [Tmux Plugin Manager (TPM)](https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm) if you haven't already
2. Add the following to your `~/.tmux.conf`:
   ```tmux
   set -g @plugin 'Subbeh/tmux-tpad'
   ```
3. Press `prefix` + <kbd>I</kbd> to install the plugin

## Configuration

TPad sessions are configured using tmux options in the format: `@tpad-<session_name>-<option>`.

### Global Options

| Option      | Default | Description                                 |
| ----------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| @tpad-debug | false   | Enable debug logging to `~/.cache/tpad.log` |

### Required Options

| Option | Description                                                      |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| bind   | Key binding to toggle the popup session (e.g., "C-p" for Ctrl+P) |

### Appearance Options

| Option       | Default                                  | Description                                                    |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| title        | `#[fg=magenta,bold] 󱂬 TPad: @instance@ ` | Popup window title                                             |
| width        | 60%                                      | Popup width (percentage or columns)                            |
| height       | 60%                                      | Popup height (percentage or rows)                              |
| style        | fg=blue                                  | Popup window style                                             |
| border_style |                                          | Border style (e.g., "fg=cyan")                                 |
| border_lines | rounded                                  | Border line style (rounded/none/etc)                           |
| pos_x        |                                          | Horizontal position (percentage, pixels, or left/center/right) |
| pos_y        |                                          | Vertical position (percentage, pixels, or top/center/bottom)   |

### Behavior Options

| Option  | Default | Description                                         |
| ------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| dir     | $HOME   | Working directory for the session                   |
| cmd     |         | Command to execute when popup opens                 |
| prefix  |         | Custom tmux prefix for the session                  |
| env     |         | Additional environment variables                    |
| opts    |         | Session-specific tmux options (semicolon-separated) |
| per-dir | false   | Create separate sessions per git repository/directory |

## Example Configuration

Here's a comprehensive example showing different use cases:

```tmux
# Simple scratchpad
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-bind   "C-p"
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-opts   "status on"

# Git management with lazygit (separate session per git repo)
set -g @tpad-git-bind          "C-g"
set -g @tpad-git-cmd           "lazygit"
set -g @tpad-git-per-dir       "true"
set -g @tpad-git-style         "fg=yellow"

# Notes with Neovim
set -g @tpad-notes-bind        "C-n"
set -g @tpad-notes-dir         "${NOTES_DIR}"
set -g @tpad-notes-cmd         "nvim -c NvimTreeOpen"
set -g @tpad-notes-prefix      "None"
set -g @tpad-notes-width       "80%"
set -g @tpad-notes-height      "80%"

# Task management
set -g @tpad-tasks-bind        "C-t"
set -g @tpad-tasks-style       "fg=green"
set -g @tpad-tasks-height      "40%"
set -g @tpad-tasks-width       "40%"
set -g @tpad-tasks-pos_x       "right"
set -g @tpad-tasks-pos_y       "bottom"
set -g @tpad-tasks-cmd         "taskwarrior-tui"
```

## Usage

1. Configure your popup sessions in `tmux.conf` as shown above
2. Press your tmux prefix key (default: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>)
3. Press the configured key binding to toggle the popup (e.g., <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>g</kbd> for the git session)
4. The popup will close automatically when the command exits

### Full-screen mode

Full-screen mode can be toggled by pressing the tmux prefix key with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>f</kbd> from within a tpad session

### Per-Directory Sessions

When `per-dir` is enabled, tmux-tpad creates separate sessions for each git repository or directory. This is particularly useful for tools like lazygit, where you want independent sessions for different projects.

**How it works:**
- Detects the git root of your current pane's directory
- Creates a unique session per git root (e.g., `tpad_git_project1`, `tpad_git_project2`)
- Automatically sets the working directory to the git root
- Falls back to the current directory if not in a git repository

**Example:**
```tmux
set -g @tpad-git-bind "C-g"
set -g @tpad-git-cmd "lazygit"
set -g @tpad-git-per-dir "true"
```

Now pressing `Ctrl-g` in different git repositories will open separate lazygit sessions for each project.

### Session-specific Options

You can set session-specific tmux options using the `opts` configuration. Multiple options can be separated with semicolons:

```tmux
# Enable the statusline for a specific popup
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-opts "status on"

# Multiple options
set -g @tpad-scratchpad-opts "status on; status-position top"
```

## Roadmap

- [ ] Window controls (resize, maximize, minimize)
- [ ] Image support for terminals with kitty protocol
- [ ] Session persistence options
- [ ] Multiple popup layouts/splits

## Credits

This project was inspired by:

- [Dismissable Popup Shell in tmux](https://willhbr.net/2023/02/07/dismissable-popup-shell-in-tmux/)
- [omerxx/tmux-floax](https://github.com/omerxx/tmux-floax)

## License

MIT
